So, oftentimes we're asked, "How do I
flower my camellia?"
And the answer is: Camellia's flower by themselves. It's just the gardener that needs to
encourage
the conditions that actually help induce
the bloom,
and bring the bloom into flower. Here we
have a young plant. This is one that has
been grown in the house for many years.
It's been restricted in its size, mainly by
the lack, or the lower levels, of
fertilizer, and by dryness to it's watering.
And you can see we have blooms that have opened up; this is in the wintertime.
And here we have, in the top of it,  a
young bud that's about ready to open. It
will probably open the next couple of weeks.
So, how a camellia grows is, it puts out
a flush of new growth;
and, during the summertime, that growth
hardens off. And as we go into
midsummer, sometime just before June,
the growth starts hardening off; the plant
decides to flower.
And buds form down at the leaf axis,
although
you, the gardener, can't see them. Then as
the season progresses, and we go into
fall, these buds began to swell.
And that all happens under normal
temperatures
of Summer, going into Fall. As we get into
late Fall,
temperatures start to cool down; the light
level shortens,
and the plants get triggered into, yes,
it's time for
blooming. And so the buds begin to
swell,
and swell, and that continues until they
open.
Now, camellias are classified as early,
mid, or late season.
And those camellias that are early, will often flower for us in November,
around Thanksgiving. The late ones will
flower for us in late February or March,
here in the greenhouses.
The thing that disrupts that is warm
temperatures.
If the plant is given too much warmth,
which would be room temperature
in contemporary homes, the buds will
blast. They will dry up and fall off.
So, you just have to remember, as you see those buds forming,
be sure to keep them as cool as possible
during that flowering period.
Thank you for watching today. We’ve talked a little bit about how to grow
Camellias.
They're quite easy to grow. You just have to
remember to
be easy on the feed, and grow them in a
cool condition during the wintertime.
If you have any interest in
culture of them, we have an article on
our website, at logees.com